Setting up a development environment
====================================

::: {.contents}
:::

Some steps described here overlap the ones described in the
[installation instructions](../admin/installation.md).

Step 0: Dependencies
--------------------

Follow the corresponding section from the [installation
instructions](../admin/installation.md).

Additionally, a development environment may need the following
dependencies to generate minified versions of the JS code and the
documentation pages:

-   Fedora: packages `uglify-js` and `python3-docutils`.
-   Debian/Ubuntu: packages `uglifyjs` and `python3-docutils`.

NOTICE: UglifyJS version must be 3.15 or above.

Step 1: Setting up the database
-------------------------------

Follow the corresponding section from the [installation
instructions](../admin/installation.md).

Step 2: Setting up the files
----------------------------

Clone the PhpReport repository `https://github.com/Igalia/phpreport` in
a location available to the web server. The usual default location for
the Apache web server is: `/var/www/html/`

Alternatively, clone it elsewhere and create a link from the web server
directory.

Step 3: Creating the schema and initial data of the database
------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration file with the default values already exists in the
repository, so you don\'t have to touch it unless you changed any data
in the f.md step.

Then, you can follow the step three in the [installation
instructions](../admin/installation.md) (either the manual or the
wizard setup) to create the schema and initial data.

Step 4: Setup autogenerated files
---------------------------------

Create the documentation files with `make help`.

You can optionally minify the JS source with `make minify`. You should
be able to debug it because there are source map files in place, but
take into account you would have to re-generate them with `make minify`
every time you modify a `.js` file. In a development environment, it\'s
probably better not to minify the sources.

Step 5: Try the application
---------------------------

Use a browser to open the correct URL of your web server (very likely,
`http://localhost/phpreport`), then use the user name `admin` and the
password `admin` to try a user with full privileges, or `user` with
password `user` to try a login with restricted permissions. You will
also be able to create users with any permission level once you are
logged in as `admin`.

Step 6: Running automated tests
-------------------------------

Make sure you have composer and the projects dependencies installed. To
install the dependencies run `composer install` in the project root
directory.

All the automated tests should be placed inside the `tests` directory.
From the project root, run `./vendor/bin/phpunit --testdox tests` to
execute the automated tests.
