Projects management
===================

::: {.contents}
:::

PhpReport provides an interface to create, edit and remove projects, and
assign them to users and clients. It can be accessed from the *Data
management* menu, section *Projects*.

![](i/menu-data-mgmt-projects.png)

Create, edit and delete projects
--------------------------------

In the *Project management* screen you will see a grid containing all
the projects, sorted by *start date* by default; this can be changed
pressing on the corresponding column.

![](i/projects-mgmt-screen.png)

To create a new project you must use the *Add* button located above the
grid, and to edit a project you must double click on the corresponding
row or click once to select it and then press the *Edit* button, also
located above the grid.

In both cases, the following subwindow will appear:

![](i/project-edition-window.png)

In the window you must enter the data of the project:

Name:

:   Name of the project.

Customer:

:   Customer the project will be assigned to.

Area:

:   Area of the company this project belongs to.

Activation:

:   Activation status of the project. If it\'s not active it doesn\'t
    appear in the tasks screen and no hours can be entered.

Invoice:

:   Expected invoiced of the project.

Estimated hours:

:   Number of hours expected to be devoted to the project.

Moved hours:

:   Number of hours moved out of the project. The moved hours are not
    taken into account to calculate the deviation or the estimated
    invoice per hour.

Start date:

:   Start date of the project.

End date:

:   Theoretical end date of the project.

Schedule:

:   Legacy field containing the type of schedule of the project. Now it
    can contain any text.

Type:

:   Legacy field containing the type of the project. Now it can contain
    any text.

The *Reset* button allows you to to return the data in the window to the
original state, while the *Accept* and *Cancel* buttons will save or
discard your changes, respectively.

With the *Delete* button located above the projects grid you can remove
the selected project. You will be asked for confirmation before actually
trying to delete. If there are any assignations of tasks, clients or
users to the project, you won\'t be allowed to delete it. You have to
remove those assignations and try the deletion later.

Finally, the last button, *Details*, will open the [project details
report](reports.md#project-details) for the selected project.

Assigning users
---------------

To assign users to the selected project, press the *Assign People*
button located above the projects grid. The following subwindow will
appear:

![](i/user-assignment-subwindow.png)

To assign a user, you have to drag it from the right list and drop it on
the left list. Only the users assigned to the area to which the project
belongs are shown in the list by default; if you want to assign a user
who\'s not in the list, check the *Show all Users* box.

Once you\'re done, press the *Accept* button to save the assignment or
*Cancel* to discard it. You can also use the *Reset* button to return
the data in the window to the original state.

::: {.tip}
::: {.title}
Tip
:::

You can select more than one user to drag\'n\'drop them at once, using
the *Ctrl* or *Shift* keys.
:::
