# Management of other entities

There are some other entities in PhpReport, not mentioned before, with
their own management interfaces.

## Create, edit and delete areas

In the _Areas management_ screen you will be able to create, edit and
delete areas. It can be accessed from the _Data management_ menu,
section _Areas_.

![](i/menu-data-mgmt-areas.png)

This interface consists of a grid containing the list of areas stored in
the system, sorted by _name_.

![](i/areas-mgmt-screen.png)

To create a new area you must use the _Add_ button located above the
grid, and to edit an area you must double-click on the corresponding
row. In both cases, an inline edition row will appear; the only editable
field is the name of the area.

To delete an area you must select it with a single click on the
corresponding row and use the _Delete_ button located next to _Add_
button. You will be asked for confirmation before actually trying to
delete. If there are any users or projects assigned to that area, you
won't be allowed to delete it. You have to remove these associations
and try the deletion later.

## Create, edit and delete extra hours compensations

In the _Hour compensations management_ screen you will be able to
create, edit and delete extra hours compensations. It can be accessed
from the _Data management_ menu, section _Hour compensations_.

![](i/menu-data-mgmt-compensations.png)

This interface consists of a grid containing the list of areas stored in
the system, sorted by _date_.

![](i/compensations-mgmt-screen.png)

To create a new compensation you must use the _Add_ button located above
the grid, and to edit a compensation you must double-click on the
corresponding row. In both cases, an inline edition row will appear,
where you can edit the fields _date_, _user_ and _hours_.

To delete a compensation you must select it with a single click on the
corresponding row and use the _Delete_ button located next to _Add_
button. You will be asked for confirmation before actually trying to
delete.
